KURTOID(6)                   Games Manual                   KURTOID(6)

NAME
       Kurtoid  - Bot for the swiss card game ``Jassen'' developed for
       the course ``Deep Learning For Games''

DESCRIPTION
       Kurtoid is a collection of simple bots based  on  simple  algo‐
       rithms,  heuristics,  and randomness. The strongest implementa‐
       tion is the bot Trumpruler, which turned out to be  quite  com‐
       petitive,  despite the simple underlying implementation. In the
       tournaments, the bot Trumpruler plays under the name Kurtoid.

TRUMP SELECTION
       The trump selection is implemented using  a  simple  heuristic-
       based  algorithm  using a concept called the Bockchain.  A card
       that is unbeatable  for  color  trumps  resp.  unbeatable  when
       played  as  the  first  card  in  a ``Obe-Abe'' or ``Unde-Ufe''
       trick, is called ``Bock'' in Swiss German. The idea behind  the
       Bockchain  is  to go through all six possible trump selections,
       and compute how many ``Boeck'' are in  the  hand  for  each  of
       those, i.e. the length of the chain of ``Boeck''. For each pos‐
       sible trump, a score is calculated, which is  computed  by  the
       number  of  cards  for each trump color, plus the length of the
       Bockchain.  The trump option with  the  highest  score  is  se‐
       lected. If the player can select the trump forehand, and if the
       total score is below a threshold of five, the  trump  selection
       is pushed to the partner. (The number of five was calculated by
       simulating the card distribution many times. On average,  play‐
       ers got a score a bit below 5 as the best trump option.)

CARD SELECTION
       The  card  selection  is  done  by  first determining all valid
       (playable) cards. If there is more than one,  a  simulation  is
       started  for  each valid card, where the opponents are randomly
       assigned a card from the remaining unplayed cards.  The  points
       for  each  simulated round are calculated and the card yielding
       the best outcome is then played. More sophisticated algorithms,
       like simulating using different permutations, applying the Min‐
       imax algorithm, etc. did not have a positive effect on the per‐
       formance.

DEPLOYMENT
       The  application  is  packed  into a Docker container, which is
       pushed to Heroku. The credentials to the Enterprise Lab  GitLab
       are  to be injected using environment variables into the Docker
       build process, in order to pull the DL4G Jass  library  without
       exposing it to the internet.

AUTHORS
       Pascal  Kiser  <pascal.kiser@stud.hslu.ch>  and  Patrick Bucher
       <patrick.bucher@stud.hslu.ch>

GITHUB
       The   project's   code   can   be   found   on   GitHub   under
       https://github.com/skiapoden/kurtoid

                                                            KURTOID(6)
